Hi guys! I just wanted to let you know before we start this show that one of our
numbers is doing a comedy show and that- Is it me, Ana?
It's not you James, you know about that, wouldn't you?
No, it's me. It's not Dan. What? It's not you.
Is it you, Ana? It's not me. Oh, that I'm not interested.
I have no interest either. Yeah, that's going to put people off now. They've realized it's not me.
It is Andrew Hunter Murray. Whoo! Keeps on having to add new shows to his
bloody comedy show because people keep on filling them out and- All right, sorry again.
Just read the card of God. We were to watch it the other week, didn't we?
Yeah, it's really, really funny. It's so funny. It's really, really good.
Yeah, it's great. It's really funny. It's full of characters. You get to see Andy
being the stupidest version of himself doing. He's a rhyming librarian lady at a book club.
He's a Samba man. It's amazing. Spoilers. So many spoilers.
No, it's excellent. It's absurd and insane and hilarious. You should go and see it.
It's on the 27th and the 28th of March at the Soho Theatre. It's at 7.45. Go and see it now.
Well, don't go and see it now. Go see what it's up.
Also, before we begin, you'll notice that James is not here this week.
Sitting in his place is Erika McCallister. Erika McCallister is a friend of ours.
She works at the Natural History Museum and she is their curator of flies, Diptura.
And she's got a new book out. It's called The Secret Life of Flies.
She took three years to write this book. It's everything that she knows about flies.
And she knows a lot about flies. She knows so much stuff about flies.
And also, she has no time for people who don't like flies, which is why I wasn't allowed
on the book. Exactly. So the book's going to be out April 3rd.
It was really exciting to have her on the show. She was really awesome.
And she told us that she was going to make sure she always brought it back to flies.
And she did, no matter what we were talking about.
Okay, on with the show.
Hello and welcome to another episode of No Such Thing as a Fish, a weekly podcast
coming to you from the QI offices in Covent Garden.
My name is Dan Shriver and I'm sitting here with Anna Chazinski, Andrew Hunter Murray,
and the Natural History Museum's Curator of Diptura, that means flies.
It's Erika McCallister. And once again, we have gathered around the microphones
with our four favorite facts from the last seven days and in no particular order,
here we go. Starting with you, Erika.
My fact is that the vinegar flies burn is so long that if humans have the same sperm
to body ratio as the fly, for example, then, Dan sperm would be the size of a sperm whale.
Whoa. Do you feel proud? That's.
So when you say size, is that the as long as a blue one, as a sperm whale?
As a sperm whale. If it was blue one, that'd be quite extraordinary.
But it's a sperm whale. It's about 120 feet, I read.
Right. Is that right or not?
Meter, the science. Can you not do a meter?
No, no, it's new. No, it's 33 meters. 33 meters.
Yeah. A third of a hundred meters sprinting thing.
So three of Dan's sperm will be able to stretch the length of Usain Bolt's run.
Yes. Yeah.
That's quite a nice graphic, I hadn't.
Why does that thought process? But thank you.
Why do they need sperm that long?
They don't have a lot of sperm.
Oh, okay. And they don't go through the teenage years, so they don't waste it.
And what they do is that because the females are very, very promiscuous.
Okay. And this is all nature that females are designed to be promiscuous.
And we're only doing it for our offspring. It's not for fun.
That's what I tell people.
And so we originally thought that if there was lots of sperm competition,
you make loads of it and it was great.
And actually, what these do is their sperm is so large,
the actual sperm pushes the other sperm out of the way.
Whoa. I know.
Pushes them out of the way in the opening, in the genital opening.
It pushes the other sperm out of the way. Yep. They've got quite exciting penises.
Have they? What are their penises?
We don't know what other penises are like.
Hello. I mean, it depends on species.
Some of them have got like little comes, some of them have got little whips,
they've got little tickling organs, they've got all sorts of things.
Oh, it's just like a whole and some as shop, but just inside a penis.
Another thing I read is that this particular fly, vinegar fly,
has testes which are a tenth of its body weight.
They're enormous because they have to produce this.
So they're not the biggest in comparison to body size and animal kingdom.
The sage bookish cricket gets that 14%.
And you can look it up. You know, we study this.
But they do need because when they want to produce this sperm,
and it is one at a time that basically it's pumped out,
not like the thousands that Dan weights.
Yeah. So Dan's testicles here,
Dan have estimated your weight.
I think they'd be well over a stone, maybe seven and a half kilos.
So as you're lining up next to St. Bolts.
Yeah, bouncing along on them like space hoppers.
Wow.
I also got a real image of your sperm that I want someone to draw
with just very thick rimmed glasses and weird...
If you're listening to this, do not draw that and send it to at Shriberland.
Don't do it.
And this is the other thing about it.
So supposedly the sperm are, they're like balls of twine.
Yeah, no, they're really, really thin.
So it looks like someone has just given a cat a load of wool.
Right.
And then somebody's coming in and quickly had to tidy up
and shoved it all back to get it.
It's always the same when the cleaning lady comes out of there.
The guy who I think first found out about the vinegar flight
and their extremely long sperm...
Yeah.
Scott Pitnik, he has a tattoo of a sperm cell on his arm
to sort of commemorate this discovery.
That's very cool.
He's put up photos of it online and it is all over his arm.
Well, it have to be.
Well, it is the length of his arm.
It's a huge tattoo.
Although he should have made it the length of, you know,
as we've said, proportionally.
Well, the length is probably the length of the sperm now.
Yeah, the sperm now.
Yeah, so he should have made it running all up and down his body.
Yeah, he needs 30 metres of it.
Yeah.
I guess he should.
It's true that the way as someone who looks for new species of flies
as you do at the Natural History Museum,
is it true that you identify them through their genitals
more than anything else?
Well, not through their genitals, but hey, because that would be odd.
But yeah, species descriptions is basically,
it's always done on male genitalia.
Female genitalia is really similar.
Uh-huh.
So the whole thing about it being a lock and key doesn't quite make sense.
But the idea now, I have got this great idea
that we're very into 3D printing and micro-CT scanning.
We can actually do 3D genitalia, kick glasses, walk through.
We could have like theme parks or fly genitalia.
I think that...
I'm sure the NHM would totally go for a new gallery
of like walks through genitalia.
Is this the thing that you've been pitching in every weekly machine glass?
Any more business before we end?
Could you call it through the p-hole?
Ah!
Isn't that... So I was reading about, apparently,
they think the reason it has one big sperm
that it leaves in a packet on top of the women's abdomen
and then she puts it into her genitals.
The reason it's so big is so that it blocks it up like a plug
to what the flies do.
No, I mean, basically every animal has a plug.
Humans have plugs.
Ars is just a little bit more fluid.
Oh, yeah.
So the female seminal fluid is the plug
trying to kill all the sperm.
But also the European plugs are slightly different.
They are very.
And you need an adaptor sometimes.
And so, yeah, so flies go out of their way to try and make these plugs
and a lot of flies actually use themselves.
So they do practice sexual suicide.
The male, when he's in cop with the female
and he's pumped his sperm up, yeah.
A lot of them will sacrifice themselves,
will let the females eat them.
And then, so she's so busy doing that,
it's a longer sperm transferral.
So he's got a greater chance.
So he uses him.
So there's a type of bite in midge.
So basically, when she's in cop and she's facing him,
she saw through his eyeballs,
releases a digestive enzyme,
his insides dissolve, she sucks them up,
his body breaks off, snaps, leaves the penis in her,
she just whips it out afterwards.
Brilliant. Whoa.
You know when we are parents, as humans,
talk about the sacrifices they've made.
Yeah, they made nothing.
No idea.
And my body dissolved by your mother.
Well, the bush crickets with your massive sperm,
she will eat his wings.
How come?
Because he gives us, I think, like, midcop
to nibble on to keep her there.
Because females basically only care about food.
And then does he have to walk home afterwards?
No, he can't fly away.
He can't do anything.
Basically, that's it for him,
because no other female is going to be interested.
No point in even doing the wingless walk of shame.
It's why I go on any date with a packet of pringles
in either hand.
It's so, it's a moment only you're honest.
It's so middate.
I can provide the pringles to them,
and they'll stay on the date with me for longer.
Yeah, because you've got to keep the female interested.
There's a whole group of flies
that the females don't even hunt.
And so the males will bring them gifts.
So the females with feed, they would have sex,
it was all great.
But the females finished before the males,
so the females would just disappear.
And the males were like, "But we haven't finished."
And so the males learned to wrap up their gifts.
So it was like taking a box of chocolates.
So she'd take so much time opening the fly up
that he would have lots of sex.
But it went in the opposite way.
Because then she spent so much time.
He was like, "Well, I finished."
So another group basically stole back
this half-eaten box of chocolates
and re-wrapped it to give it to another fly.
What are they wrapping it in?
A box of livers.
Nice.
Yeah, it's my favourite kind of wrapping paper.
So some other questions I have about flies while you're here.
So they flap their wings super fast, right?
But like 300 times a second, which I find insane.
But I was reading that some of them have
someone called it a gear box mechanism
where do they have grooves or something
and they can kind of change gear
to make themselves go faster or slower?
They do have that.
But flies probably are the most efficient
and most amazing flies on the planet.
But their vision is what's really important here.
Because they see so much faster.
So we are always at half a second behind real time.
What?
It takes us that long to process what goes on.
So actually, we're never in the present moment.
Okay.
We're always in the past.
But flies are merely second.
Millie, mini, mini, like nanos.
So it hints why they do everything so much faster.
Because so if I, and obviously I'm advocating,
do not swap them.
But if we went to swap them,
they would just see that it's really slow motion
and at the last minute they could just walk out the way.
So if you do want to catch a fly,
do it really slowly.
Because then actually it appears like a solid object.
I will.
But I will need you at the end of the first matrix.
Very much like me.
Okay.
Yeah.
Well, they have to describe that.
It's the soul.
Yeah.
Well, bullet time.
Bullet time.
Yeah, bullet time is what they call it in the matrix
when everything goes slow and mushy.
Yeah, I should have watched.
Binderman can do that as well as you see in that scene
in Spider-Man and spiders catch flies.
Ah, but there's flies that eat spiders.
No.
No, no, no, it is.
And they are so cool.
There's three species in the UK
and they're called acrycerides, hunchback flies.
And they look gorgeous.
And the female, she lays loads of eggs,
but she doesn't lay them.
She's basically got a machine gun as an oviposter.
And so she just rapidly fars out hundreds of these eggs.
It's like, tch, tch, tch, around the garden.
And she wants them to land on vegetation
that's slightly raised off the ground.
And then the larvae, I've got like a sucker on the end of them.
And they kind of like stand up in the air
that they just don't care, waving around.
And then they look down.
And when a spider runs along,
they kind of hurl themselves out the spider.
And then they run to the spider.
By the way, they've got no legs.
So like inchworm crawling to the spider,
up the leg into the abdomen.
Oh, no.
But what's really cool, if the spider is immature,
and spiders can live to up to five years,
they would do a little bit of munching,
and then basically go to sleep and wake up
when the spider is mature,
and they can eat the right organs.
Really?
So they're inside the, they have a nap inside the spider.
For two years?
Three years.
But it's not just spiders.
So I read that there was, there's a name here
that I can't properly pronounce,
but Lucilla Bufunivora.
Have you heard of that?
Buffy for shorts?
Yeah.
Lucilla.
Yeah, and so they have a similar larvae thing
where they go into a frog's head,
and then they eat the frog's head from the inside.
And it is amazing.
If you see the frog's head,
have you seen the...
Yeah, I saw the photos.
Yeah, okay.
Go and have a look at the images,
because it's like completely deformed,
like collapsed, it's like...
Not sure which would be advocating this sort of behaviour.
With your garden, honestly,
if you really knew what was going on in there,
it's just like, it's...
It's disgusting.
Yeah, and everyone isn't about cute nature,
and everything is eating everything,
ripping limbs off and eating their inside out.
Okay, it is time for fact number two,
and that is my fact.
My fact this week is that,
whenever he got really angry,
Winston Churchill would throw his teeth across the room.
Whenever...
Wow, not every single time,
but when he got really angry,
apparently that's when you knew the teeth were coming out.
So Winston Churchill had false teeth, dentures,
and he had three sets of them.
He had a dentist who made them for him,
called Derrick Cudlip,
and Derrick Cudlip specifically made these teeth.
And so he used to get called into the war rooms,
whenever Churchill flung his teeth across the room,
because they would break.
So he would arrive with a new set of teeth
to give him to pop back in,
and then he would take the old pair,
and he would go off and he would fix them
while he was gone.
So he used to break them a lot, Churchill,
when he got angry.
Some of it was by throwing it against the wall.
The other times was when he was biting too hard
through stress and anger of what was going on.
And it was so important these teeth to him,
because as far as Churchill was concerned,
part of the major push of winning the war
was his voice, was him going on the radio
and saying all these inspiring things.
So when the call-up came for the dentist to go to war,
he tore up the paper and said,
"It is more important for the war effort that this man is here,
looking after my teeth than it is for him to be fighting
on the front lines."
It was his technician, wasn't it?
Cudlett was the technician who made it,
and then his dentist was so Wilfred Fisch,
both excellent names.
So as you say, he thought his speech was very important,
and he had a slight speech impediment,
so he had kind of a list.
And he thought that was a vital part
of how he was going to rally the troops.
And so he made them make specially designed dentures
that were slightly soft,
so that he could actually preserve his list.
So that he could make invigorating list-be-speakers that he did.
Amazing.
Yeah.
And you can...
So the reason I know about this is because I read an article
where a few years ago his teeth were auctioned off.
So someone actually bought his teeth,
and it was sold, I believe, by the family of Mr. Cudlett.
And, uh...
Yeah.
I can't take that name seriously.
Sorry.
But the ridicule thing, the guy who bought them,
he was a collector of Churchill memorabilia.
And he already owned the microphone
that Churchill had made a lot of these speeches into.
And then he had the teeth that went with the microphone.
So he said in a sense he had reunited them.
I mean, all he was missing was actually wisdom Churchill.
Yeah.
The Guardian had lied about the auctioning of the teeth.
I just have to read it.
We shall bite them on the beaches.
Pretty good.
Very good.
Yeah.
I actually looked up as far as I could
a list of things that had been auctioned off Churchill's.
So there were quite a few things.
His funeral plans were auctioned.
They went for 472 pounds.
A violin made from one of his cigar boxes was also auctioned off
and a Calgary Stetson, Calboy Hat.
That was auctioned off as well.
I read the thing that was auctioned off.
It came with a DVD,
which showed a clip of him putting on the hat.
Which is kind of sensible,
because you want authentication.
One thing that of Churchill's that went up for auction
was a file of his blood.
And it was withdrawn from auction
after the very understandable objections of his family members,
who said we don't need a file of Winston Churchill's blood going up for sale.
But it was only put on auction at £300,
which I think if you're going to do the really gruesome thing
of putting a file of somebody's blood up,
at least put it up for £50.
We were looking into this,
because obviously you go around the world
and you go into all the nice big cathedrals
and there's an artifact.
And it's like, okay, I have a finger of Jesus Christ.
And we're like, brilliant.
And I've now seen God knows how many vials of blood of Jesus Christ.
Really?
Yeah, and so the scientist of me is like,
oh, we should just sequence this.
Yeah.
You know, we can do it now.
We've got the technology.
And with all the bones and all the artifacts,
apparently you can make like four, five Jesus Christ.
But the natural history museum gets--
No, we haven't got said no.
No, we don't get said no, so I think.
Could you make your own Jesus Christ?
Well, this is it.
Well, no.
So it's not like when you guys brought back the ibex in 2000.
We didn't bring it back.
No, it wasn't.
No, no. What else I do? I sort of meant you.
I sort of meant you guys as an all-scientist.
Yeah. Look at the same diptra.
No, you have to say I'm not doing anything with it.
Well, another Churchill relic is, uh,
went to auction in 2015.
And that was the stub of one of his cigars
that he had smoked while in hospital, in his hospital bed.
Times have changed.
But he, uh, you can get a lot of that out there.
Cigars of Churchill's, little stubs.
There's plenty of them around.
They keep going on auction.
And the reason is that he never used to finish a cigar.
He used to only smoke them halfway through.
And there's a lot of accounts of Churchill
being very of cutely aware of the fact
that the cigar was his trademark look.
So there's accounts of him as they're pulling up to places.
Him saying, "Stop the car."
And he'd light up a cigar and say, "Branding."
It's all about branding.
You wouldn't say that exact word.
Did he say branding?
It's all about branding.
That is, in 50 years, that's going to be a Churchill misquote.
And it's going to be your fault.
Branding, it's all about branding.
It was something like that.
I don't remember what it was.
He does seem very corporate, though.
Yeah, exactly.
I mean, he's worrying about how he speaks and his teeth.
Yeah. Well, and of course, the thing with his whiskey-drinking way,
he knew that whiskey was part of his image.
And he massively watered down his whiskey all the time
because he didn't want to be drunk.
But I think that's fair enough.
I think it's good that he wasn't absolutely smashed
all the way through the wall.
Obviously, that's fine.
But he didn't have to cultivate the whiskey image.
Yeah.
It's all very, as he wants, as I believe he once said,
branding, it's all about branding.
Just on his cigars, his mum hated the fact that he smokes cigars.
And she said to him when he was 15,
if you knew how foolish and silly you looked doing it,
you would give up immediately.
And I just love the idea, because parents always say that
when you start smoking and you're 15,
they're like, you look like an idiot.
I know you think you look cool.
And Churchill's mum was saying to him,
you look like a damn full Churchill.
And she actually paid him to give up smoking.
So he did give up for six months.
I think you've done a really bad public health message there.
I think then look, he turned out really well.
Yes, take up smoking.
Take up smoking.
One day, you two could defeat fascism.
You said, Dan, about how he thought the speeches
were a hugely important part of the war effort
in Maryland, this kind of stuff.
I was reading about the reaction to one of his
most famous speeches, the Dunkirk one.
So just after the British army had been kicked out of France
by the Nazis, the speech we shall fight on the beaches
and in all the other locations at the first draft had it.
Like it's fill in here, branding, close.
Anyway, supposedly that reaction didn't,
the speech did not get a great reaction.
So when you read it out in the House of Commons,
his wife, Clementine, she told a friend that,
and I'm quoting here, a great section of the Tory party
were not behind Winston and had received his speech
even in silent silence.
So lots of the reactions were not actually as good
as we think they were at the time.
And it was more when the tide of the war turned a bit,
for example, at about 1942,
that they've really got a greater reaction then.
Okay. Is it true that he basically just used
Anglo-Saxon words in that speech?
Oh, I don't know.
Because he really went like patriotic.
Patriotic, patriotic.
So he tried to use any other words.
So it's all very solid, old English words.
That is so fascinating.
Yeah, yeah. Even though they're kind of Germanic
in origin, really should have been using
some nice romance languages like the French.
That wasn't good, so well.
So the original speech when Churchill made it wasn't broadcast,
because the House of Commons wasn't wired for sound.
And on the radio that evening they said,
Churchill said these things in the House of Commons today
and then quoted him.
So where did we get the recording,
sorry, of the features script,
if it wasn't recorded in the House of Commons at the time?
Churchill re-recorded them later on.
No way.
And in fact, he recorded them after the war was over.
He's so cool, Pratt.
That is so cool.
He is aware. He's like a barmer getting into
a recording booth and doing his "Yes, We Can" speech again.
Yeah, well, it was in 1949 that he recorded these.
And these were the ones that were sold by EMI
and I think possibly DACA2.
And they were sold in the States as well.
This is honestly so disappointing.
I reckon I've definitely listened to those at some point
with a bottle of wine and took up really emotional
and thought, God, it's like I'm right there.
And that's just him sitting in 1949
in a little white business room.
That is so depressing.
It's the experience of hearing them.
It's very emotive.
And I think when you hear those words,
you know, we can all remember him saying how he says,
we will fight them on the beaches.
We actually says we will fight on the beaches.
So there we go.
Oh, please.
I mean, even doing it later on as he did,
he could probably add more emphasis
'cause he knew how it turned out.
Yeah, so he can really go, hey, look at this bit.
Yeah.
And everyone's like, wow, you're amazing.
I've got a funny feeling, guys.
We're gonna win.
I'm gonna be successful in that bit.
OK, it is time for fact number three.
And that is Chazinski.
Yeah, my fact this week is that art galleries
wedge marbles between paintings and the wall
so that if anyone tries to steal the painting,
the marbles fall on the floor and make a clattering noise.
And that's just a classic art gallery anti-theft device.
Is that a classic, isn't it?
It is a classic.
Yeah, so I read this in Salon.
And it was in an article called How to Foil and Art Heist.
And the person who wrote it is someone
who advises museums on this kind of thing and galleries.
And he said he can't name the museums who do this
because they don't want to give away
their really advanced tactics.
But yeah, apparently this is quite common,
especially if there are galleries
that have budget constraints.
He just shoves some marbles, wedge them
between the painting and the wall.
And as you can imagine, if a thief tries
to lift the painting off the wall
and they go clattering to the ground,
the thief might scarper.
Yeah, maybe more a trip as they're going away.
A trip, yeah.
Outside my flat, when they put the garden gates
and they were like, have you have this extra bit
on top of the garden gates, which is really flimsy.
So if someone tries to climb over, that smashes.
And it's, yeah, so a lot of people eat like,
"Oh, it's the home alone method
of defending your gallery, isn't it?"
The gallery's also recommend installing
torrentulas around the place
and little cardboard cutouts of people
to look like the gallery's security guards.
Yeah, just dancing all the time in the winter.
But you wouldn't have torrentulas.
That'd be like the worst.
They can only just flick hairs.
You want to really go for something else in the torrentula.
What'd you go for?
I'd go for a deaf stalker scorpion.
Death stalker scorpion.
Or a scollopendra, like the big centerpiece.
Here you go, tipster.
I'd just say they're pretty more aggressive.
I'd love if you were in charge of security.
I know, it's somewhere.
So good.
I don't have flesh-eating spiders.
They go away in slowly.
These necrotic wounds carried on eat in the public.
We have lots of problems because obviously in the old days,
natural history collectors were very obsessive.
Obviously, we're very normal nowadays.
A lot of people would come in
with various different apparel
to actually go through the collections
and pick out specimens they hadn't got in their own collections.
So this is the era of top hats and things like that?
So underneath, they would have like foam bases
in the top, in the inside of their top hat.
So they'd go into the collection,
stick a load of butterflies in it,
put that out back over to the account.
Wow.
No way.
And these were collectors who just wanted to steal from them.
Yeah, there's some very famous cases.
And there's a lot of people who, I mean, that's wrong.
But what they did, a lot of them, was even worse.
They took the data of the specimens.
Now to me, that's like you might as well.
Oh, and that is ruined.
It's ruined for life.
There's nothing we can do.
When it was collected away, it is just a dead set.
So you know what, steal and hopefully we'll get it back one day
because some child in the family like three generations
almost donated to us.
But if you take off the data, that's it.
It's dead.
It's double dead.
Why did you take off the shelf of the dead to us?
There's nothing we could do with it.
Why would they sort of take, they leave the thing behind,
but they just take the--
Yeah, you had a very famous person.
Mine's taken.
He did a very, he did it all the time.
And he also put on different data.
And it was like, oh, just a mess with you.
No, was he trying to build up his own collection?
Yeah.
He was trying to say I've collected all these things.
He was trying to make himself to be the most amazing collector
at the time, and it was like, oh.
Yes, and that's why we're very careful about security.
And top hats no longer loud.
No longer loud, no.
I think I found the most prolific art destroyer
who was not a thief of art.
It's a woman called Mrs. Brightviser,
who was the mother of a French art thief
and destroyed the art that her son had stolen.
Why?
When he asked her to, to destroy evidence.
To, uh-- All right.
And I've got written down here that she destroyed
a billion pounds worth of the art that he had stolen,
very prolific art thief.
Why didn't he destroy it?
I don't--
He can't be your mum to do your dirty work.
I know, but this is not-- he's not the only one.
So there was a thief called Radu Dogharu,
who asked his mum to burn all the artworks he had stolen,
so that the police wouldn't find them.
And she did.
She put them in the stove and she burned them all up.
And then forensics experts had to go through all the ashes
in the bottom of her stove
and pick out tiny, tiny bits of, say, Picasso's signature.
Like tiny, you know, fractions of a millimeter long.
Yeah.
Just so they could measure them and say,
that is the kind of paint that would have been used
in this money or whatever.
Yes, yeah, yeah, yeah.
These were sad little boys living in their mum's attic,
doing their crime and then bringing home
to their mum to sort out.
It just bizarre, there have been two separate cases of, you know,
getting your mum to destroy the art you stole it.
That is weird.
Just been reading--
Going to be good.
A depot, which is this somewhere in the UK.
And a cat broke in.
And it took offense to one of the specimens.
And it just kept knocking it off.
And so they'd come in every morning
and it was like, put it back up.
It could never find this cat.
And it was only like CCTV,
because they were like, this is really weird.
Why is this one specimen always off?
You brag about the great security you've got,
but there's a cat that keeps repeatedly broken in.
You can only know that cats are naturally very good at that.
They are good at that.
I've got one last thing, which is this is a really cool example
of security in a museum that--
this is that the Museum of English Rural Life.
And it's a bit of security they didn't realize they had.
They have, within their collection,
on display, a 150-year-old mouse trap.
And they came in one morning and sitting
inside the mouse trap was a mouse caught in present day,
as in the last few years.
And so what it was is while they were doing renovations,
some mice managed to get into the museum,
had managed to get through the little casing and got caught
by a mouse trap that had been set and built in 1861.
That is so cool.
Yeah, by Colin Pollinger and Sons of Silsea West Sussex.
And on the side of the box,
it boasts perpetual mouse trap will last a lifetime.
Oh, that's true.
It's longer than.
Someone needs to write in longer than before that.
Yeah, that's super cool.
That's pretty cool.
One of the silliest things we've ever had stolen from the museum
is Copperlight.
He's done it from a dinosaur.
Oh, yeah, the poo set.
It's market for that.
I wonder what he wants to do with it.
Oh, it's just a cool--
It's the coolest Copperlight out, surely.
Yeah, exactly, exactly.
I mean, you can get any sort of--
there's a museum of poo in the Isle of White.
Did you know that?
No.
Yeah, they freeze.
They liquid nitrogen.
They freeze these poo's in spheres.
It's normal human poo's in the living room.
Are they accepting donations or--
Apparently, there's a waiting list.
They're trying to get different animal poo and whatever.
We've been in contact.
So it's not a fossilized ancient poo.
It's just a dog's poo poop on the tree.
And, but-- no, no, no, they're not.
They're quite selective.
OK.
Take any old shit.
It's got to be pedigree.
Pedigree poo.
Don't want to know what the gift shop looks like.
Is it-- that's not even to the public, though, is it?
What?
Great.
I love white.
Visit.
Here we come.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
OK, it is time for a final fact of the show.
And that is Andy.
My fact is that prisoners in Siberia
used to eat prehistoric animals they found frozen in the ice.
Is that really true?
So what kind of animals?
Mammoths.
All kinds of animals.
Really?
Dinosaur.
Who said?
Well, OK, according to Alexander Solzzynitsyn.
OK, he's reliable.
He's very reliable.
He was a prisoner in Siberia for a very long time.
A very famous Russian author.
And he wrote a book called The Gulag Archipelago.
The idea of this huge chain of islands of Gulags
spread across Siberia.
Siberia is absolutely enormous.
And it's where Russia traditionally
sent all of its dissidents and any troublemakers.
And it's on the first page of his book.
He writes about some prisoners handing over some prehistoric
squirrels they found, ground squirrels,
to the camp geologist of the camp they were in.
But he also said that on other occasions,
prisoners had just devoured these things on the spot
because they were so hungry.
Other people have disputed it.
They've said there wouldn't be much left of a ground squirrel,
even if it had been frozen.
It would have petrified gone very hard.
So he claims it.
Other people have said, is this possible?
They get hard like wood.
Maybe they were just fish that had been stuck in a frozen river.
But it's possible, yeah.
Yeah.
So there have been lots of reports for hundreds of years
of people eating prehistoric animals, haven't they?
Which I think people say are mostly apocryphal
and it's often mammoths.
Well, they did, when the baby mammoth.
So when the N.A. and they defrosted
and all the blood started leaking out, there was--
and I don't know if they actually took from that one,
but they have eaten bits of mammoth.
Was that the one that was found quite a couple of years ago?
Yeah.
Who would they--
The researchers?
Oh.
Yeah, it was like a big thing.
And that's pretty--
Is that risky thing to do?
I mean--
If the animal is frozen and it's kept constantly
with a zero degrees, it's fine, which doesn't happen
basically in the environment, so that's what--
But if it goes up and down in temperatures
and it defrosts and then re-freezes,
that's when you're getting all the mold in the bacteria,
being actually frozen into this specimen.
So that's when you can get all sorts of craziness.
But if you heat it in the microwave for a minute,
that's actually fine.
Because the average mammoth is going to fit in a microwave.
Yeah.
There was-- was it--
Alexei Tickanov has tried mammoth.
I think he might have been one of the zoologists
on that expedition.
Or anyway, he said he's tasted mammoth.
And it was awful.
It tasted like meat left too long in a freezer.
I mean--
Which--
We're trying to do it, that's amazing.
Just on things found in ice, I read a really cool story
that in 2010, researchers were looking
in Shackleton's base camp.
And they found underneath the floorboards
a crate of old whiskey.
And they brought it up, and it was frozen.
But when they were defrosting it,
and they were swirling around the bottles,
they could hear liquid inside.
So the whiskey was still usable.
Now, obviously, they were never going to drink it.
But the particular whiskey that was there
was from a company called McKinley.
And they'd lost the recipe since.
So basically, we had the recipe again of a lost whiskey.
So what they did was they flew it over to Scotland.
And there's a new company called Wyatt and McKay,
who bought McKinley.
And they put syringes through the cork,
and they managed to get the whiskey out.
And they managed to replicate the recipe
of what that long-lost whiskey recipe was.
And they made 50,000 bottles.
So they sold it as a limited edition, $157 American per bottle.
It's not limited, is it?
Yeah.
You know, when you get something limited edition,
you think, God, it's only me and tell not the people.
I guess everything is a limited edition, isn't it?
Because no one's ever made an infinite number of anything, yes.
But so then they sent the bottles back.
To the base.
So it's still there as part of what was left out.
Oh, what did they call it?
Ooh, I don't know.
I think they called it just what it was.
OK, they didn't call it Shackleton.
No, they shouldn't.
The American audience would have loved that.
Yeah.
Just on these ancient animals that
have been found in the permafrost and things like this.
So one really useful thing is squirrels.
Because they made nests.
And they made nests of all the local flora.
And so it's like a densely packed nest full of the kind of species
that you would have had growing in the ice age.
To freeze in her berry.
Yeah, so you've got all these different species just gathered
very conveniently in one place for the scientists to get to it.
That's really good.
Yeah, that's great.
And this is the amazing thing.
A few years ago, in 2012, scientists
grew the most ancient living organism, multicellular,
on the planet.
It's a plant, a little plant called sylene stenophila.
And it was brought back to life by these seeds
that the squirrels put in their nest.
The seeds were 31 and 1/2,000 years old.
And we grew them into a plant.
And they still work.
And now we have lots of these things.
And it's quite beautiful, isn't it?
Is that really delicate looking white flower?
I think so, yeah.
It's over the white flower on top.
Yeah, it's really lovely.
Wow, that's amazing.
Yeah, that's incredible.
Can I ask a quick question about,
so has the Natural History Museum got a woolly mammoth?
That's ever been sort of thawed out of the ice?
I don't believe we have any.
And the one that came to us to visit,
and everyone got to see, went back again.
OK.
So if that, yeah, you can look, but--
Yeah, really, apparently 1% only of the woolly mammoths
that get dug out of the permafrost,
all that thawed out of the permafrost ends up
and end up in scientific hands.
Interest in the elephant tusks,
acytes, mammoth tusks aren't.
So that they're not protected in terms of under the, yes.
So you're not--
Well, because they're not considered fair enough.
I mean, you can't really protect the mammoths any more, can you?
But you can stop the tusks from getting into the wrong hands, right?
You can say this is protected as in a museum, has to have that.
But we haven't got legislation for that.
Really?
On other old foods that have been eaten,
there's bog butter.
Bog butter is a way that people used to store butter,
and they would put it in bogs.
This is especially in Scotland and Ireland,
and it would be preserved.
And I think recently we found 300 packs of bog butter,
so there was a big uncovering in a swamp in Ireland.
And it was up to 1,400 years old.
And this woman called Helen Lucy Burke,
who I think is a journalist,
went to the museum where all this bog butter was on display,
1,400 years old, and it was being suspended on a plinth.
And it's, yeah, it's like cheesy, lardy butter,
and she just grabbed a bit of it and ate it, which is quite cool.
And she said it wasn't disgusting.
It wasn't very nice.
It was cheesy, ripe, and athletes' footy.
I mean, but that sentence would be disgusting enough
if you had a friend who just grabbed a bunch of butter,
and it's not that eating it.
So, like, what did she have it on anything?
Did she have toast with her?
Just on its own.
I think it was quite solidified by that point, maybe.
All right, like a biscuit.
I quite like butter, just by itself.
Yeah, but you wouldn't just stick your hands up.
I agree with you.
You're kidding.
I just, it's one of those things that you can't.
I don't like chocolate.
I like butter.
All right.
Which is healthier?
Just eating chocolate or just eating butter?
Both are bad.
They're good and small amounts.
It's not like I have a pack of butter.
Who would die first?
You only allow to eat butter or me only allow to eat chocolate.
Well, at this rate, chocolate's dying out,
so you would have the worst sort.
Which, what?
Chocolate's dying out?
It's a problem, isn't there?
There is, because the pollinator's dying out.
And you know what the pollinator is?
It's a fly.
It's a one-specific fly, then.
Well, we think there's about 14 species.
We don't know.
Well, can't you bring them back?
Isn't this what you do?
No, it's you're creating a habitat problem for them.
I don't blame me.
I'm just saying, it's you people with your mastermind
of chocolate, you've gone out there,
and you're like, OK, let's say our monocultures.
The adults have come along and they're like,
oh, don't like this.
Oh, so they're genuinely like, this is limited stock.
Like, this is an actual limited stock of this and there.
Stick it in a bog, and then you'll be fine.
OK.
Wow.
There's this very-- by the way, our mosquitos flies.
Yes.
OK.
I thought that might be something else.
Is a daddy long legs a fly?
Ah, what are you calling a daddy long legs?
Oh, there are two, aren't there?
I mean-- No, there's three now.
They've added a third one, just for fun.
So, you know, this is why I shouldn't use common names
or anything.
So you've got the daddy long legs, the flying thing,
which is a crane fly, true fly.
That's the one.
The second one is a pillion, which a harvestman.
And the third type is the daddy long legs spider,
which is the one that-- excuse to be called a cellar spider.
It's the one that hangs around in your living room.
Oh, it's a very spindly one.
And then it went, yeah, OK, and that can't fly either.
No, but that's a spider, so that is venomous.
Are there any spiders that can fly?
Nope.
Unless they're using ferretic behavior.
Oh, I'm kind of lying.
Because balloon spiders, they balloon.
So they exist, so yeah.
So they can get up into really high up.
Wait, hang on, how did-- what, they float up?
No, they were still.
It's the silks.
Do you remember?
Oh, yeah.
They're reverse parachuters.
Yeah.
That's like saying, the weekend fly, isn't it?
That's like saying, "We can fly," because we climb up.
We rope climb, isn't it?
Oh, Bill.
Oh, what?
Yeah, because they're using ferret.
It's just literally released into the wind.
Yeah.
And because it's so thin and they're so small,
the viscosity of the air is such that they can go forth.
And it's them.
If the only equivalent is if I let out my sperm, well-sized sperm,
and that caught the wind, it dragged me to the end
before you saying bolt got there.
You rode on it.
Yeah, exactly.
It's extraordinary scenes at today's Olympics.
[LAUGHTER]
OK, that's it.
That's all of our facts.
Thank you so much for listening.
If you'd like to get in contact with any of us
about the things that we've said over the course of this podcast,
we can be found on our Twitter accounts.
I'm on @Sriberland, Andy at Andrew Hunter M, Erica.
Flygal M.H.M.
And Chazinski.
You can email podcast@QI.com.
Yep, or you can go to our group account, QI podcast,
or go to our website.
No such thing as a fish.com.
It's got all of our previous episodes.
And do get Erica's book.
It's called The Secret Life of Flies.
It's available.
You can get on Amazon.
It's going to be in book shops.
Why not go to the Natural History Museum?
Buy it from the shop there.
Track down Erica.
Get her to sign it and have a chat.
Track her down.
I said I'd any sign for wine.
OK, all right, there we go.
We'll be back again next week with another episode.
We'll see you then.
Goodbye.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
(upbeat music)